Improving the Security concepts overviews (#2224)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/developing-applications/building-blocks/service-invocation/service-invocation-namespaces.md

---
type: docs
title: "Service invocation across namespaces"
linkTitle: "Service invocation namespaces"
weight: 1000
description: "Call between services deployed to different namespaces"
---

> This article describes how you can call between services deployed to different namespaces. By default, you can invoke services within the *same* namespaces by simply referencing the app ID (`nodeapp`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article describes how you can call between services deployed to different namespaces. By default, you can invoke services within the *same* namespace by simply referencing the app ID (`nodeapp`):
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this article, you'll learn how you can call between services deployed to different namespaces. By default, service invocation supports invoking services within the *same* namespace by simply referencing the app ID (`nodeapp`):
```

```sh
localhost:3500/v1.0/invoke/nodeapp/method/neworder
```

> Service invocation also supports calls across namespaces. On all supported hosting platforms, Dapr app IDs conform to a valid FQDN format that includes the target namespace. You can therefore specify both the app ID (`nodeapp`) in addition to the namespace the app runs in (`production`). For example to call the `neworder` method on the `nodeapp`, in the `production` namespace would be like this;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service invocation also supports calls across namespaces. On all supported hosting platforms, Dapr app IDs conform to a valid FQDN format that includes the target namespace. You can therefore specify both the app ID (`nodeapp`) in addition to the namespace the app runs in (`production`). For example to call the `neworder` method on the `nodeapp`, in the `production` namespace would look like this:
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Service invocation also supports calls across namespaces. On all supported hosting platforms, Dapr app IDs conform to a valid FQDN format that includes the target namespace. You can specify both:

- The app ID (`nodeapp`), and
- The namespace the app runs in (`production`). 

**Example 1**

Call the `neworder` method on the `nodeapp` in the `production` namespace:
```

```sh
localhost:3500/v1.0/invoke/nodeapp.production/method/neworder
```

> When using service invocation to call an application in a namespace you  qualify it with the namespace. This is especially useful in cross namespace calls in a Kubernetes cluster. As another example, calling the `ping` method on `myapp` which is scoped to the `production` namespace would be like this;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using service invocation to call an application in a namespace you qualify it with the namespace. This is especially useful in cross namespace calls in a Kubernetes cluster. As another example, calling the `ping` method on `myapp` which is scoped to the `production` namespace would look like this:
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When calling an application in a namespace using service invocation, you qualify it with the namespace. This proves useful in cross-namespace calls in a Kubernetes cluster.

**Example 2**

Call the `ping` method on `myapp` scoped to the `production` namespace:
```

```bash
https://localhost:3500/v1.0/invoke/myapp.production/method/ping
```

> And calling the same `ping` method using a curl command from an external DNS address, in this case `api.demo.dapr.team` and supplying the Dapr API token for authentication would be like this;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And calling the same `ping` method using a curl command from an external DNS address, in this case `api.demo.dapr.team` and supplying the Dapr API token for authentication would look like this:
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Example 3**

Call the same `ping` method as example 2 using a curl command from an external DNS address (in this case, `api.demo.dapr.team`) and supply the Dapr API token for authentication:
```
